
# Title of decision: Practice async

# Objectives
- keep counter of active connections
- using async in background print each 2 sec number of active connections

# Takeaway
- print() with twice \r, this is smart  `print(f"\r{' ' * 80}\rActive conn. {self.conn_counter}", end="")`
- type hints: `asyncio.Task`
- asyncio Runner Handling Keyboard Interruption

## Status
What is the status, such as proposed, accepted, trying it out, rejected, deprecated, superseded, etc.?
- 001 - draft with sync print
- 003 - trying to implement async print FAIL but why? BC Server event loop never gave back program execution to async loop
- 004 - trying to add async main() SUCCESS using `await asyncio.sleep(0)` in my mein loop <-give a chance to other coroutine to run; but FAIL at Ctrl+C
- 005 - drop main(), run async loop directly on server.run() method SUCCESS; but FAIL on last update on pirnt_conn -> (suspicion) .select() is boocking ??? YES check pyDocs:Selectors
- 006 - trying to solve blocking issue with .secect() using timeout arg; SUCCESS but feeling that last pint_conn is delayed
- 007 - fix gracefull stop by handling async task in background, implementing in try-finally task.cancel() FAIL, SEE: [pyDoc Handling Keyboard Interrupion in asycn runner](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-runner.html#handling-keyboard-interruption)
- 008 - same as above but diff approach, it seems that Ctrl+C is handled by async runner internaly and each coroutine raises CancelledError -> seems that this exeption need to be handled; PARTIAL SUCCESS why asyncio Runner do not raise `KeyboardInterrupt` ? and why second Ctrl+C is working?
- 009 - trying to debug/undersand above behavior, why asyncio Runner do not re-raise `KeyboardInterupt` ? FAILED
- 010 - solution that I am not proud of, manulay re-raise `KeyboardInterrupt`

## Decision
What is the change that we are proposing and/or doing?
- Add atribute: int, conn_couter to Server class
- inc/dec self.conn_counter in handle_conn method
- in tcp client needed to add sleep before close connection to see effect on server side
- Add atribute: list of coroutines run in background, for gracefull shutdown

## Context
What is the issue that we're seeing that is motivating this decision or change?
- n/a

## Options Considered
Options considered, including pros and cons of each.  
Option in "decision" should be included.
- can I mix coroutine with normal fn ? how this two will behave ?
- does async + selectors have any pitfalls? YES e.g. .select(timeout=None) by deafault is blocking 
- does fn:print_conn really needs to be coroutine? YES bc will async sleep
- can I drop main() ? YES it is overhead
- logger monitor type based on async that log state of app in 5 sec intervals?

## Consequences
What becomes easier or more difficult to do because of this change?
- consequences of running async in background is need to catch this task and close on exit BC on current setup try-except-finally our task is hanging